General/ACAdviceList - part of General/AspectCocoa

General/ACAdviceList objects can be compared to General/JoinPoints.  At any given time, there should be a one-to-one correspondence between advice lists and join points.  In fact it would not be incorrect to rename the class General/ACAdviceList to General/ACJoinPoint.  The difference is a matter of terminoligy.  We use the term General/JoinPoint to refer to a particular point in code where we would like to apply advice.  We use the term advice list to refer to a list of General/AdviceObjects that apply to a particular General/JoinPoint.

An advice list has 2 parts, the original IMP of the method it advices, and an ordered array of General/AdviceObjects.  When a General/ReplacementIMP is called, a lookup will result in a single General/ACAdviceList object. If the lookup does not return an advice list, then there is something wrong with the framwork (a bug), because a General/ReplacementIMPs should only be called in place of methods that have one or more aspects on them.  So, the job of the advice object is to return the IMP of the original method to the General/ReplacementIMP as well as performing the befores, and afters that exist on it's General/AdviceObjects according to the arguments it recieves from the General/ReplacementIMP.  (arounds are handled by the General/ReplacementIMP and the around-implementing General/AdviceObjects, General/ACAdviceList is responsible for returning all the General/AdviceObjects that implement around)