

General/NeHe productions is hosting a great online tutorial for General/OpenGL

If you want to jump into General/OpenGL all out, then I highly recommend that you check out an awesome online resource for General/OpenGL "General/TheOpenGLRedBook" (many thanks to the anonymous visitor that provided the link, I have been contemplating buying this book for two years!!!). This book is highly regarded by many serious General/OpenGL programmers. Getting the most out of the book requires a high degree of dedication because it is not easy to digest and absorb. I'm an engineer with many years of calculus, linear algebra, statistics, number theory, wave theory (FFT stuff), MATLAB, c programming, linear circuit theory, VLSI, solid state physics, numeric methods, CAD/FEA, thermodynamics, fields and optics, quantum physics, signals and systems, logic, data acquisition (HPIB), blah blah blah....... I basically want to get the point across that even someone with a decent academic pedigree can be turned off by General/TheOpenGLRedBook. You have to respect this text from the get go. I'm at the point where I am willing to read it, but I also feel that I am not the typical computer user drawn to Cocoa. General/OpenGL has a steep learning curve. The purpose of the General/OpenGL page is to help people intimidated by General/OpenGL and General/OpenGL experts. If you are serious about learning General/OpenGL, then I recommend that you start with General/TheOpenGLRedBook. But if you just want to get your feet wet, then check out the General/NeHe tutorials. I have a high respect for pure computer science and I have a decent grasp of the engineering mentality. Engineers tend to apply first and worry about the details later, while scientists tend to take a holistic approach which can be time consuming but more fruitful. These methodologies shouldn't be mutually exclusive. I'm not trying to stereotype engineers and scientists because I have seen engineers love theory first and application second and scientists skip the theory and start creating first. Arguing about which is better is counter productive and silly. When I see one camp look down upon the other camp I see ignorance first before anything else. I'm a groomed engineer with a scientist's heart. --zootbobbalu

If you are just beginning to learn General/OpenGL and the book above is too overwelming then I highly recommend that you start with these two links before you do anything else. This has to be the best intro to General/OpenGL I've seen. This tutorial starts off really simple (you don't even draw anything in Lesson 1!!), but as the lessons progress many advanced topics get touched upon. 


*http://nehe.gamedev.net/ - General/NeHe Tutorials: examples in many languages, several Mac OS X-compatible