General/VoodooPad uses General/NSTextViewAsWiki with rich formatting. Get it at http://www.flyingmeat.com/voodoopad.html, Shareware $24.95 , free "lite" version available.

Won 1st place, Mac OS X Innovators Contest, 2nd round:
http://www.macdevcenter.com/pub/a/mac/developer/2003/07/10/innovators.html

----

Its file format is easy to understand. There's an txt importer with source on the homepage. A plugin model is likelay to be introduced. **If** the source is released it will cost and have a much more restrictive license thanBSD or GPL.

-- General/TobiasWeber (was answered sth along those lines by General/VoodooPad's author)

----

This is a really nice app! But I don't like all my notes in one file and I wan't to add things like "reduce formatting on paste". **General/WikiWikiWeb is too important not to be free/open software!** And since it didn't really introduce anything new I will shamelessly try to clone it ;-)

-- General/TobiasWeber (who is still a beginning programmer but very annoyed with his local General/UseModWiki)

----

Yes it seems very nice, also has cute graphics and 'fading' windows, although I don't think user applications should  introduce transitions for things the operating system is supposed to handle.

Personally though, I don't have the discipline to learn to use all the nice features in a program like this (similar with outliners, calendars and such)

--General/AllanOdgaard (who wishes shareware came with the source, when registered, but also understands the fear of having it leaked). *heh - i registered General/TextMate; can i get the source? ;)*

----

Right, the fading windows and toolbar are pretty pointless. And I've no idea what the key/alias concept solves. But feature-wise the programm is much simpler than this Wiki and the direct editing approach shouldn't require any learning.

So the fading stuff is no Window attribute? That explains why I couldn't hack it away in the nib to get faster responsiveness...

-- General/TobiasWeber  (thinks of refactoring this page to link Cocoa concepts required to clone General/VoodooPad)

----

The key/alias concept was requested by users who wanted to have something like the word "python" to have a http url behind it to link to websites.  It's also handy for cases where you might want two words to link to the same page in General/VoodooPad

-- General/GusMueller

----

Is there any developer documentation on the vpwiki API or is it just 'look at vpstash and do whatever it does'?

----
The voodopad web site had a movie showing searches on a voodoopad document that was actually a dump of the whole cocoadev site. Any chance this could be autogenerated and available to anyone? --Kent

I'll second that! -- General/DanKnapp